---
layout: page
title: Talks
permalink: /talks/
---

I like to speak about things that I'm passionate about:

- Open Source
- Code Quality
- Ruby & Ruby on Rails

I've spoken at a few conferences in different countries (Argentina; Uruguay;
Chile; and USA) in both Spanish and English.

## Escaping The Tar Pit (RubyConf, 2019)

This is version 2.1 of the talk I presented at SolidusConf. There are a few
improvements to `skunk` which made it to this talk. The StinkScore formula
changed to more accurately represent improvements to your code base:
[https://github.com/fastruby/skunk](https://github.com/fastruby/skunk)

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ZyU6K6eR-_A" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Escaping The Tar Pit (SolidusConf, 2019)

In this talk I explain how to avoid getting stuck in the tar pit and, if you
are in it, how to gradually get out of it. This is the first time I spoke about
a new library to judge maintainability based on code quality and code coverage:
[https://github.com/fastruby/skunk](https://github.com/fastruby/skunk)

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/am-oVaAkDNw" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Upgrade Rails 101: The Roadmap to Smooth Upgrades (Southeast Ruby, 2019)

This is version 2.1 of the workshop I conducted at RailsConf. In this iteration
I decide to use Docker to make it easier to get things set up. This proved to
be a great decision as it decreased setup issues to 0%. Setting things up took
about 10 minutes, but it was smooth sailing after that.

## Upgrade Rails 101: The Roadmap to Smooth Upgrades (RailsConf, 2019)

In this workshop I present a few simple steps to upgrade your Rails application.
Unfortunately there is no recording of this workshop, but you can find a
companion page over here: [https://www.fastruby.io/upgrade](https://www.fastruby.io/upgrade)

## Open Source: When Nights & Weekends Are Not Enough (Southeast Ruby, 2017)

In this talk I share my experience as an open source contributor and maintainer
after becoming a father. I share a few great ways to bake in open source
contributions in your day-to-day:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/MOJoF7sPVdM" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Introducci√≥n a Lean Startup (RobinTech, 2014)

In this talk I explain a few concepts about Lean Startup after a couple of years
running my startup ([Ombu Shop](https://www.ombushop.com)). This talk was in
Spanish.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/5jRznamhTjg" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Don't Feed The Zombies! (RubyConf Uruguay, 2013)

In this talk I explain a few good ways to inherit and maintain "zombie projects".
When you inherit a legacy project, how can you improve the status quo of the
project? How can you gradually pay off tech debt to turn a zombie into an
easy-to-maintain project?

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/2FWSs9RJBa0" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## The Lean Startup Hacker (RubyConf Argentina, 2012)

In this talk I explain a few concepts about Lean Startup as applied in my first
startup: [Ombu Shop, Tu Tienda Online](https://www.ombushop.com). This talk was
in Spanish.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/83CCnk7TVl4" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
